README.md, before:

# Data Monitor 

## Running locally
### Building

The first time you need to build your backend.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml build
```

### Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml up
```

The API will be availible on port 8080.

### Stopping
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml stop
```

### Cleaning up

This is the agressive command, there are more subtle ones.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml down
```
This will keep the data in the data folder.
The data folder is kept locally, and not included in git.

## Running on a server.
The passwords and extra config should be hidden. Therefore, you can have a docker-compose.override.yml file, which is ignored by git.

### Building

The first time you need to build your backend.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml build
```

### Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up
```

### Stopping
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml stop
```

### Cleaning up

This is the agressive command, there are more subtle ones.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml down
```

## Developing Locally

The development mode depends on the type of service. The config of each service to run in development mode, is in the docker-compose.dev.yml file.

Always make sure you build your images before.

Also note: debugging API service and fetch_data service is difficult at the same time.

### Before developing
You will need to make a docker-compose.override.yml, where local config will be stored.

### Dev api service
Config docker-compose.override.yml:
```
version: "3.4"
services:
  api:
    ports:
      - 8888:8080
      - 9229:9229
```
Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up logs -f --tail=200 # will tail logs
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml restart api # if you want to restart a service, better do it in another terminal
```
To go and debug this, use chrome and go to
```
chrome://inspect/#devices
```

### Dev fetch_data service
Config docker-compose.override.yml:
```
version: "3.4"
services:
  fetch_data:
    ports:
      - 8888:8080
      - 9229:9229
```
Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up logs -f --tail=200 # will tail logs
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml restart api # if you want to restart a service, better do it in another terminal
```
To go and debug this, use chrome and go to
```
chrome://inspect/#devices
```

## Making configurations local to your machine.
Suppose you want to access the DB directly, you can use a docker-compose.override.yml.
This file will keep track of your changes, and won't be commit to git.

```
version: "3.4"
services:
  database:
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```
To take these into account, you can run:
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
```

### Useful commands
Connect locally from your machine to database (assumes an update docker-compose.override.yml)
```
 psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U <NAME_OF_POSTGRES_USER>
```

Commit message:

Update local and dev mode for docker-compose

README.md, after:

# Data Monitor 

## Running locally
### Building

The first time you need to build your backend.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml build
```

### Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml up
```

The API will be availible on port 8080.

### Stopping
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml stop
```

### Cleaning up

This is the agressive command, there are more subtle ones.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml down
```
This will keep the data in the data folder.
The data folder is kept locally, and not included in git.

## Running on a server.
The passwords and extra config should be hidden. Therefore, you can have a docker-compose.override.yml file, which is ignored by git.

### Building

The first time you need to build your backend.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml build
```

### Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up
```

### Stopping
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml stop
```

### Cleaning up

This is the agressive command, there are more subtle ones.
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml down
```

## Developing Locally

The development mode depends on the type of service. The config of each service to run in development mode, is in the docker-compose.dev.yml file.

Always make sure you build your images before.

Also note: debugging API service and fetch_data service is difficult at the same time.

### Before developing
You will need to make a docker-compose.override.yml, where local config will be stored.

### Website
In development mode, the website is not handled by docker-compose and it must be launch aside.
```
cd client
npm install
npm start
```

### Dev api service
Config docker-compose.override.yml:
```
version: "3.4"
services:
  api:
    ports:
      - 8888:8080
      - 9229:9229
```
Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up logs -f --tail=200 # will tail logs
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml restart api # if you want to restart a service, better do it in another terminal
```
To go and debug this, use chrome and go to
```
chrome://inspect/#devices
```

### Dev fetch_data service
Config docker-compose.override.yml:
```
version: "3.4"
services:
  fetch_data:
    ports:
      - 8888:8080
      - 9229:9229
```
Running
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up logs -f --tail=200 # will tail logs
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml restart api # if you want to restart a service, better do it in another terminal
```
To go and debug this, use chrome and go to
```
chrome://inspect/#devices
```

## Making configurations local to your machine.
Suppose you want to access the DB directly, you can use a docker-compose.override.yml.
This file will keep track of your changes, and won't be commit to git.

```
version: "3.4"
services:
  database:
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```
To take these into account, you can run:
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.local.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up -d  # will start in daemon mode
```

### Useful commands
Connect locally from your machine to database (assumes an update docker-compose.override.yml)
```
 psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U <NAME_OF_POSTGRES_USER>
```
